# English 101 - Notes - Feb 15 22

## Narration

- Narrative: a series of events told in a certain order, and told by a narrator, for some specific purpose
- Narrator: person telling the story
- Writer: person writing the story
- Narrator and Writer are not the same person
- Kinds of Narrators:
    - Omniscient Narrator - all knowing
    - Partially-Omniscient Narrator - limited knowledge
    - Reliable or Unreliable
- Point of View: how the story is told
    - First Person: "I, we"
    - Third Person: "He, she, they", Proper names
    - Second Person: "You"
- Elements of Fiction:
    - Plot: what?
    - Setting: where/when?
    - Characters: who?
    - Actions: how?
    - Conflict: why?
- Beginning -> Rising Action -> Climax -> Falling Action -> Resolution
- Dialogue - People talking
- Show, don't tell
- Healthy mix of dialogue and summarizing

### Write about a day in your life... if you were a dog/cat

Their kicking woke me, again. It's every morning this happens as they struggle with those blankets. You know, the ones that sometimes have little pests that I need to catch but never seem to? A quick inspection revealed none of those today, so I just moved up to where she was laying and found the warmest spot. I stretched and nestled down for maybe more sleep.

"Honey, do you know where my wallet is?"

"It's right where you always leave it, on the kitchen counter!"

I was brought out of my warm slumber again by their yelling. Why they insist on being in a panic is beyond me, but I do my best to help. After lazily stretching, I jumped off the bed and sauntered over to twirl between her legs. My tail lightly whipping her calf and my purrs earned me a "Well good morning Mr. Fuzzums" and some head scritches. So gullible and easy to play, that one. 

I heard that magical sound. The one where the food is opened once more, and trotted down towards the kitchen. He usually remembered to feed me, or else would face my wrathful yelling. I was king around here, and needed to remind everyone of that. So I yelled anyways, as he was leaning down to fill my little fish dish.

As I finished eating, she came downstairs to join him at the table. I don't know why they couldn't just put their tongues into the bowl like me to eat, but I repeatedly watched them both perform their morning ritual with that silver thing. How their paws held onto it, I'll never learn.

I twirled between their legs once more, earning a few fingers between my ears. I purred my appreciation loudly, and went off to my litter pile. It was a cozy little corner in the basement, where I'd often find new places to nap.

As I finished my business and hid the evidence, as always, I heard a slam followed by a silent peace through the air. I made my way back upstairs, and found my perch with the sun perfectly shining on the top bed. Grabbing my little mouse, I began my ascent.

Up to the first platform, with a graceful leap. Through the little tube, climb around the post. A little stretch and scratch on the post, and I was ready to jump higher. Once, twice, three times around and I settled in for a well deserved nap. Mornings are rough around here, okay?

Sometime later, after the sun had drifted away from my spot, I awoke somewhat cold. Not yet ready to move, I lazily watched through that clear barrier as that pesky bird I couldn't chase settled aloft his hanging food. It almost seemed to be set up that way in order for my underlings to taunt me. Some twisted, cruel joke.

I jumped down from the top in a flash, darted to the couch, hopped up graceful as ever, and sat at the precipice of that clear barrier. Try as I might, reach as high as I could, there was no way through it. That pesky bird just stared back at me before returning to his pecking. I'd show him a pecking order if I could get out there.

The sun seemed to have shifted into a good spot for me to just curl up here for a bit. I watched as the birds ate, as those huge contraptions the underlings use to leave me passed by, and...

I was chasing that pesky. I kept getting closer, and would spring to bite down only for it to dive away in time. Over and over, it taunted me "Haha, kitty got no claws!" The sheer audacity! I gained again, and with every ounce of energy left, I sprang at it jaws gaping! Only to be grabbed in something else's jaws and lifted into the air!

"Mreowwwww!" I screamed!

"Mr. Fuzzums must have been having quite the bad dream, weren't you Mr. Fuzzums? Yes you were, yes you were!" came her voice. Ah, so they had returned. I found myself cradled in her arms, and she was warm. Her fingers came up to scratch my whiskers, and I gently started purring away.

Life wasn't so hard.