In one page, explain how the two best photos differ in terms of what they express. Be as specific as possible in what you say about the photos. Questions you should probably address: What is expressed by the photos? How do various features of the photos relate to what is expressed? Be sure not to focus simply on just “what’s in the photo.”

For this assignment, I decided to go with three pairs of photos using similar subjects, with each pair having one photo expressing Desire and one photo expressing Order. Typically, desire is somewhat easy to understand; when we desire something, we want it, need it, must have it, it can consume our thoughts. Order is perhaps a little bit more difficult to translate to a direct emotion, but there's a sort of calming relief when things are in order and a pattern or system can be recognized; it's predictable and unsurprising.

The best pair of photos that represent these are perhaps the photos of food.

The picture of the salads is representative of Order. The salads are part of my weekly meal prep routine, and keep to a system. They are laid out evenly, have similar quantities of food, and represent the preparation for the week. There is an easy order then to my meals for the week. The photo itself has a sort of split built in, with the comparison of the salads in containers for preparation, and the one on the plate ready to be eaten. These work together well, as the plated salad has is a spread out representation of the salads in containers.

The photo of the prime rib is representative of Desire. The background is completely uniform and does not draw attention, focusing the spectator completely on the subject. The meal draws the attention to it, and does not share. This came from a meal at the end of January, and was hands down the best I've had in years. I really cannot stop thinking about it.